# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

#### A. Instances of Property class are being made in console.rb.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

 #### A. SQL code is being defined in the save() class method.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

 #### A. The lines which involve class methods being called on class instances (i.e property1.save()).

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

 #### A.The id of an object should be unique so it's easier to let the db track this rather than trying to hard code each new object with an id.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

#### A. By creating the object and using options passed into the init(). Then use the save() method we add the object to the db, the db will then assign it the id with the sql code asking it to do so in the class.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

 #### A. In the event the id hasn't been created yet, it won't expect an id as input.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

 #### A. class methods are used when you want to take action against all objects in a class such as delete all. Can also create class methods that find more info about an object given only limited info like id or address.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

 #### A. Returns an array, can access the id by accessing index [0] and ['id'].

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

#### A. To avoid SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

 #### A. object.attribute

Q11. What are their return values?

#### A. will return the whole object relating to the argument.
